####
1G1R
####

ROMSearch operates on a "one game, one ROM" (1G1R) philosophy. This means that for each game, it will find the
ROM file that it believes to be the best. The approach ROMSearch takes is to (1) filter out ROMs that the user does
not want, and then (2) score the remaining ROMs to find an overall "best" ROM.

Filters
-------

Firstly, ROMs are filtered.

* This starts with dat categories the user may not want (by default, this is everything not a game,
  so demos, beta, etc.)
* We then filter out ROMs that don't have languages (or implied languages) that are in the user preferences
* ROMs are filtered if they don't have regions in the user preferences
* Optionally, you can filter out any modern versions. If not, they will still be de-prioritized in the scoring, but
  this option allows you to remove them altogether

Scoring
-------

After the initial round of filtering, we then score the ROMs. Some have an ordered priority, which means that
the order the user has selected matters (e.g. USA, World, Europe for regions).

Scores are boosted in this order of priority:

* Has RetroAchievements
* Regions (ordered priority)
* Languages (ordered priority)
* Budget editions
* Versions/revisions
* Improved versions (e.g. EDC)

There are also some demotions that go on. The priority is (from most to least demoted):

* Priority from ``retool`` clonelists
* Modern versions
* Alternate versions
* Demoted versions (e.g. arcade versions)

If, after all this, there is still a tie, then we also add on small bonuses based on the default region and
language preference order (see :doc:`default config <configs/defaults>`). The regions here take higher priority
than languages. If you don't like this order, you can avoid this by including more languages and/or regions
in your setup!

Compilations
------------

Compilation ROMs are handled somewhat differently. If a ROM is marked as part of a compilation via ``retool``, then
these will be added to each game in the compilation. We then proceed as normal, and after filtering based on
regions/languages, if there are still potential single-game ROMs then the compilation will be removed from that
particular game. Otherwise, we will keep the compilations. Any compilations are then scored as above to choose
a "best" version. This does potentially mean that these compilations can appear as the best choice for multiple games,
but this is unlikely given the pretty stringent criteria for these compilations ROMs to be chosen.

More options for handling compilations will be included in future releases.

Supersets
---------

``retool`` also has support for supersets (see
`their superset page <https://unexpectedpanda.github.io/retool/contribute-clone-lists-variants-supersets/>`_).
We handle them somewhat differently. Firstly, supersets will be filtered out if the region is not a selected one for
the user. Secondly, supersets are prioritised over everything **except** ROMs that are marked as having
RetroAchievements. This will mean that you may get a ROM from a different region than you might expect, but if it
doesn't have RetroAchievements then this will be below a ROM that does.

A note on compilations/supersets
---------------------------------

In the case of compilations and supersets, these can be non-unique to a game (e.g. a compilation of multiple games,
or a superset containing a number of DLC). To avoid duplicating ROMs, if ROMs are being separated out to different
directories, if a compilation or superset is chosen then this ends up in a directory based on the short name of the ROM,
rather than the overarching game name.

End result
----------

The final result is that you should get a prioritized ROM list based on your preferences. Hooray! This can then be
passed to :doc:`ROMDownloader <modules/romdownloader>`, which will loop over these priorities to find the highest
ranked existing ROM.
